Title:          Résumé  of Todd Lemoine
Author:         Todd Lemoine
Date:           2016 May 24 

# Todd Lemoine #
[toddlemoine.net][tl] / [todd.lemoine@gmail.com][email] / [@toddlemoine][twitter] / 407.409.8802

---

**I’m a conscientious developer who prides himself on best practices, continued knowledge growth, and attention to people.**

SENIOR SOFTWARE ENGINEER
------------------------
October 2015 to Present for [Jive Software][jive] (Portland, Oregon)

I'm helping create the foundation for Jive's next-generation UI, using React and node while maintaining parity with the legacy product. We are approaching this as an internal "open source" project, so some focus is given to support of remote teams, dissemination of best practices, and tests. 

SOFTWARE DEVELOPER IV
---------------------
July 2012 to October 2015 for [Webtrends, Inc][webtrends] (Portland, Oregon)

I built client-side analytics and web optimization applications and supporting APIs and middleware. These enterprise apps are scalable to thousands of users in different locales and are depended upon daily to make critical business decisions across various industries. Used mob programming to transition team to node + React + Flux + Immutable (away from Rails + Backbone). Helped create a "special snowflake" framework that ultimately didn't solve the problems it was intended to, but enabled some exceptional products. 

MEDIA SPECIALIST
----------------
April 2005 to June 2012 for [Sanofi Pasteur VaxDesign Campus][vaxdesign] (Orlando, Florida)

I built modular internal web apps for researchers using Backbone, jQuery, HTML5/CSS3, and RESTful web services in ASP.NET and C#. I 
also created charts and graphics for presentations, proposals, and reports.  Designed and managed vaxdesign.com.

ENGLISH INSTRUCTOR
------------------
September 2003 to March 2005 for NOVA (Tokyo, Japan)

I taught several 45-minute English sessions a day to all walks of Tokyoites, from 5 year-olds to Hiroshima survivors, each with different levels of fluency from almost none to nearly native.

VISUAL DESIGNER and WEB DEVELOPER
-------------------------------------------
June 2001 to December 2002 for Critical Content, LLC (Oklahoma City, Oklahoma)

Critical Content was an attempt to start a web design shop in Oklahoma City dedicated to the idea that usability was a first-class consideration for any level of website. Together with a partner, I helped small businesses and organizations launch online presences, take baby steps into social media, and build brand identity.

INFORMATION ARCHITECT
---------------------
May 2000 to June 2001 for XOR Inc (Tulsa, Oklahoma)

I helped clients (such as FTD, TV Guide, and Phillips 66) determine their specific audiences for websites and those audiences' needs from the clients' sites, then design an information outline, structure, or flow for the sites.

WEBMASTER
---------
1997-2000 for Oklahoma State University Graduate College (Stillwater, Oklahoma)

Designed and maintained the OSU Grad College website. Using Lotus Notes, developed and implemented one of the few fully online graduate application forms in the United States.

---

THINGS WITH WHICH I'M COMFORTABLE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Web:**		React, Backbone, jQuery, D3, REST, HTML, CSS/SASS, Wireframing
* **Languages:** 	Javascript, Ruby, C#, PHP, Regular Expressions
* **Servers:** 		Node (Express), Rails, Apache, Linux
* **Process:**      Git, Chef, RunDeck, Jenkins
* **Design:**         Adobe Illustrator CS3, Adobe Photoshop CS3 

DEGREES EARNED
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
* **Master's in Technical Writing** from Oklahoma State University, 1997-2000
* **Bachelor's in English** from Oklahoma State University, 1992-1996

[tl]:http://toddlemoine.net
[vaxdesign]:http://www.vaxdesign.com
[webtrends]:http://webtrends.com
[jive]:http://www.jivesoftware.com
[twitter]:https://twitter.com/toddlemoine
[email]:mailto:todd.lemoine@gmail.com

<style type="text/css" media="all">
body {
    padding: 3em; 
    font: normal 11pt/1.2em "Helvetica Neue", Arial, "sans serif"; 
    line-height: 160%; color: #222; margin: 0 auto; max-width: 750px;
}
h1 { font-size: 2em;  }
    h2 { margin: 1.5em 0 0 0; color: maroon; font-weight: 500; font-size: 1.15em; }
    h2:last-child { font-style: normal; color: red; font-size: 100%; }
h2+p {
    margin-top: 0.25em;
    font-style: italic;
}
#visualdesignerandwebdeveloper { page-break-before: always; }
</style>	
<style type="text/css" media="print">
    body { max-width: auto; padding: 1em; font-size: 90%; }
	a { text-decoration: none; color: inherit; }
    h1 { font-size: 2em; margin-bottom: .5em; }
</style>
